<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core">

<h1>US Census Records</h1>

<h2>Description</h2>

<p>
    The US Census Records data set contains population counts for
    slaves, free persons, and other classified persons for each
    census year from 1840 through 1870. Data are reported at US
    state and county levels.
</p>

<p>
    In addition to population data extracted from census records,
    the data set includes geocoded and raw polygon representations
    of each of the states or counties for which census data could be
    extracted. These data can be used to preform geospaital SQL
    queries on the data or to visualize the boundaries on a map.
</p>

<h2>Schema</h2>
The data set consists of the following 3 tables:
<h3>boundary_coords</h3>
<table class="db">
    <tr>
        <th>Field</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>bigint</td>
        <td class="desc">Identifier for the geospatial boundary polygon</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>BELONGS_TO</td>
        <td>bigint</td>
        <td>Foreign key mapping to nhgis_boundaries indicating the county or state to which the polygon belongs</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>COORDS</td>
        <td>longtext</td>
        <td>The coordinate string for the polygon in the format of X,Y X,Y ...</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>INNER_POLY</td>
        <td>tinyint</td>
        <td>Flag indicating if the polygon is interior to a parent boundary</td>
    </tr>
</table>
<h3>nhgis_boundaries</h3>
<table class="db">
    <tr>
        <th>Field</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>bigint</td>
        <td class="desc">Identifier for the geospatial region (county or state)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>COUNTY_NAME</td>
        <td>varchar</td>
        <td>The name of the county if the region describes the same</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>STATE_NAME</td>
        <td>varchar</td>
        <td>The name of the state or the name of the state to which the county belongs</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>YEAR</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>The year in which the region came into being (i.e. West Virginia etc.)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>SOURCE_ID</td>
        <td>bigint</td>
        <td>The NHGIS source ID to link back to the original data set</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>GEO</td>
        <td>multipolygon</td>
        <td>The MySQL geocodes for the region; this is a composite of all boundary geocodes encoded for SQL spatial extensions</td>
    </tr>
</table>
<h3>population_data</h3>
<table class="db">
    <tr>
        <th>Field</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>bigint</td>
        <td class="desc">Identifier for the census entry</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>YEAR</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>The census year</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>NHGIS_BOUNDARY</td>
        <td>bigint</td>
        <td>The foreign key to the region for which the census figure applies</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>SLAVE_POPULATION</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>The number of slaves reported in the state or county</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>NON_SLAVE_POPULATION</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>The number of free persons reported in the state or county</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>OTHER_POPULATION</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>The number of other reported in the state or county</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>TOTAL_POPULATION</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>The total number of persons reported in the state or county</td>
    </tr>
</table>

<h3>Citation</h3>

<p>Minnesota Population Center. National Historical Geographic Information System: Version 2.0. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota 2011.</p>

<p>The College of William and Mary and the Minnesota Population Center. School Attendance Boundary Information System (SABINS): Version 1.0. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota 2011.</p>


</html>