<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core">

    <ui:composition template="./resources/templates/text.xhtml">

        <ui:define name="appNav">
            <a href="./politics.xhtml">Politics and Railroad Expansion</a><a href="" class="selectednav">Scholarly Interpretation</a><a href="">Developer Resources</a><a href="">About the Data</a>
        </ui:define>


        <ui:define name="pageContent">
        		<div id="textSection">
					<h1>Politics and Railroad Expansion</h1>
                                        <p>Railroads in the nineteenth century were inseparable from politics. State legislatures issued their corporate charters and determined where their lines would run. Localities, counties, cities, and towns, all bid for the favor of the companies and attempted to lure them through their territories. The federal government too played a role early on, as the Illinois Central in 1850 gained the first land grant to build its line--a whopping 2.9 million acres. The Union Pacific, the Burlington, and other Pacific railroads followed in the 1860s as land grants were provided to encourage the transcontinentals. Political parties--Whig, Republican, and Democrat--sought to turn these powerful entities to their electoral advantage. Railroads enabled new forms of campaigning. The Lincoln-Douglas debates in 1858 followed the new rail lines, and Stephen Douglas in 1860 conducted one the first modern campaign swings using railroads across the U.S. in his bid for the presidency. Railroad political interests grew throughout the nineteenth century, as lobbyists and politicians turned to the big corporations for patronage and in exchange railroads expected in most cases influence and favorable treatment. This App tracks party electoral results over time at the county level with the advancement of the railroad network.</p>

					<h4>Selected References</h4>
                                        <p>Bensel, Richard Franklin. (2000). The Political Economy of American Industrialization, 1877-1900. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
                                        <p>--------. (1990). Yankee Leviathan: The Origins of Central State Authority in America, 1859-1877. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
                                        <p>White, Richard. (2011). Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America. New York: W. W. Norton and Co..</p>
                                        <p>--------. "Information, Markets, and Corruption: Transcontinental Railroads in the Gilded Age," Journal of American History (June 2003): 19-43.</p>

		</div>
        </ui:define>

        <ui:define name="ribbon">
			<h3>Related Case Studies</h3>
			<div>
			<h5><a href="http://railroads.unl.edu/views/item/bryan_speech">Nathan Sanderson and William G. Thomas, "William Jennings Bryan's Railroad Campaign in 1896" </a></h5>
			In the 1896 Presidential Campaign Democratic candidate William Jennings Bryan took four major railroad trips, sometimes giving over a dozen speeches at stops along his route. We have compiled all of Bryan's speeches from newspaper sources and his personal papers.
                        </div>
        </ui:define>

    </ui:composition>

</html>