<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core">

    <ui:composition template="./resources/templates/text.xhtml">

        <ui:define name="appNav">
            <a href="./population.xhtml">Slavery and the Growth of the Railroad</a><a href="" class="selectednav">Scholarly Interpretation</a><a href="">Developer Resources</a><a href="">About the Data</a>
        </ui:define>


        <ui:define name="pageContent">
            <div id="textSection">
Minnesota Population Center. National Historical Geographic Information System: Version 2.0. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota 2011.

The College of William and Mary and the Minnesota Population Center. School Attendance Boundary Information System (SABINS): Version 1.0. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota 2011.
                
            </div>
        </ui:define>

        <ui:define name="ribbon">
            <h3>Related Case Studies</h3>
            <div>
                <h5><a href="http://railroads.unl.edu/views/item/slavery_rr">William G. Thomas, "The Growth of Slavery and Southern Railroad Development</a></h5>
                When we look closely at the South's railroad network, the South's experimentation with and investment in railroads and other technologies, it turns out, was consistent with the rest of the nation. In both regions railroads grew fastest in the new western border regions. And in both railroad development had leapfrogged over the mountain regions, leaving big gaps in some areas, such as Pennsylvania, middle Georgia, and western Virginia.
            </div>
            <div>
                <h5><a href="http://railroads.unl.edu/views/item/Charts">William G. Thomas, "Southern Railroads and Freight Traffic"</a></h5>
                Southern railroad mileage outpaced Northern mileage in the 1850s. Virginia and Tennessee built more miles of railroad in the decade than the six state region of New England. Florida went from 21 miles of rail to 402, a 1,814 % increase. Historians have downplayed the effects of southern railroad development in these years. . .
            </div>
        </ui:define>

    </ui:composition>

</html>